Voice XML, an introduction

Voice XML offers an agenda for creating standard based voice applications that supports speech synthesis, dialogue management and much more.
 Benefactors, by conveying mechanized voice services using a language like Voice XML, may open up new Web services to customers with the use of voice crossing point, like telephone.
 The makers of the voice services can develop automated voice services using technology through which they developed visual Web sites.
 Voice XML is designed in such a way so that it can be used for crafting audio dialogues that consists of blended speech, digitized audio, and acknowledgement of spoken and
 DTMF key input and much more. The main aim of Voice XML is to fetch the benefits of Web based creation and delivery of content to communicative voice response applications.





Voice Extensible Markup Language (VoiceXML) is a markup language for creating voice user interfaces that use automatic speech recognition (ASR) and text-to-speech synthesis (TTS).
 The VoiceXML forum was formed in March 1999, by AT&T, IBM, Lucent and Motorola to promote and to accelerate the adoption of VoiceXML-based applications worldwide.<o:p>

Today, more than 10,000 commercial VoiceXML-based speech applications have been deployed across a diverse set of industries, including financial services, government, insurance,
 retail, telecommunications, transportation, travel and hospitality. Millions of calls are answered by VoiceXML applications every day!<o:p>

Some of the things voice xml was designed for and is being used today are creating audio dialogs, digitized audio, spoken and DTMF key input recognition, spoken input recognition, 
telephony and mixed initiative conversion.




The architectural model of voice xml considers the following components.

<o:p> 1) A document Server

2) VoiceXML interpreter

3) VoiceXML interpreter Context

4) Implementation Platform.


conclusion:


VoiceXML is a markup language that minimizes client/server interactions, shields application authors, separates user interaction code (in VoiceXML) from service logic (CGI scripts), 
and promotes service portability across implementation platforms.
 VoiceXML is designed for creating audio dialogs to synthesize speech, digitized audio, recognition of spoken and DTMF key input, recording of spoken input, telephony,
 and mixed-initiative conversations. VoiceXML development application is simplified with web infrastructure, tools and Web servers.